Hey everyone, welcome back to the
channel. Today I am going to show you
how to absolutely master sidescroller
maps and tile sets using Pixel Lab.
We're going to cover everything from
generating your first 16x6 tiles to
creating fully tileable backgrounds and
even using AI inpainting to add amazing
details like waterfalls. Whether you're
a GDAU user or working with a sprite,
this workflow is going to save you hours
of manual work. Let's dive right in.
First of all, I'm going to start with a
128x 128 canvas because we're going to
be making 16x6 tiles. We're going to go
to the create tile set sidescroller
tool. There we have the option to add
our own top and center tiles if you
already have them. Then we have the
settings for the top tile description,
the center tile description, the outline
shading and detail settings, the
transition size, and the tile size. You
can also adjust the tile set adherence,
choose a target palette, or let the AI
make one, and pick your output method,
like a new frame or new layer. I'm going
to do grass and rocks just to start off.
And let's also try grass and dirt, which
I think is more common.
We can, of course, play around with the
settings for shading, detail, and
outlines.
There we have another one, which is
pretty nice.
Here's one I kind of like.
Whenever you have a tile set you like,
go back to the create tile set tool and
hit export as tile set. When you do
that, you get three options. The option
to export it as a Wang tile set,
as a 15 tile set, which works with the
tile map tool grid plugin
or the 3x3 tile set used in GDAU.
Now we can test the tile set. And there
you see it works pretty nicely. Here I'm
using a 15 tile export because I'm just
using the tile map dual system. Now
let's try a lava and dark stones tile
set. Here I like the center tile, but I
didn't really like the top tile. So I'm
going to use that center tile and create
another one.
There you go. As you can see, we got
another top tile with lava, but it kept
our original center tile. Now I'm just
going to export it and test it out.
It looks pretty nice. The next thing I
want to show you is how to make a
background for your game. I'm doing a
320x 176 canvas size because it's the
closest size to 320x
180, which is a very common aspect ratio
for pixel art games. Here, I'm just
going to draw a small path or map. I'll
export it and import it to a sprite. I'm
going to change the canvas size just to
match it to the 320x
180 target and then use edit image pro.
We're going to use the edit with text
method and prompt for it to add a jungle
background for this sidescroller game.
We're going to tell it to make it
horizontally tile.
There we go. We got a nice jungle that
fits the style. Now, I'm going to use
the same tool, edit with text, and I'm
going to tell it to remove the floor
tiles and make the background
horizontally tile just to make sure.
There you go. We have the background
without the floor tiles. And of course,
you can manually edit just to make sure
everything fits and tiles correctly.
Here, I'm just going to fix this leaf
with tiles. You can make a pretty nice
map with just the floor tiles in the
background.
Another cool tip is to use edit image to
enhance your tile set. Here's another
tile set that I have. I'm going to go to
edit image, set the image, and prompt
for it to make it a better tile set with
better quality and details. Ta-da. It
literally just made it better. Now we
can test it and see.
It looks pretty good. Next up, let's try
bigger sizes like 32x 32. Here I'm going
to change the tile size and prompt the
same thing. Grass and dirt. As you can
see, it does a decent job. Let's try
snow and dark dirt.
That's better. That's pretty cool. I'm
going to export it as a 15 tile set and
open the sprite. Now, I'm going to show
you another trick. If you do edit image
to that small tile set and say make it a
snow and dark dirt tile set, basically
the same thing but detailed, it works
wonders. Now I just export it and try it
out and you can see it looks pretty
nice.
Let's try another grass and dirt tile
set.
I'll export it as a 15 tile set. Go to
edit image and say make it a more
realistic grass and dirt tile set.
Pretty nice. It looks more like stones
rather than dirt, but it looks cool
either way. Now, I'm just going to tell
it to make it a brick tile set with red
bricks.
It did it. It's a pretty cartoonish red.
So, I'm going to set the image for this
brick tile set and say, make it a more
realistic brick tile set like New York
City bricks. There you go. Now, one last
thing before we end the video. I'm going
to draw another simple map.
I'll export it and import it to a
sprite. And now we are going to inpaint.
Here where we have the gap, I'm just
going to draw the inpaint part that I
want to change or add.
I'm going to prompt a sidescroller game
waterfall between the grass tiles.
I'm going to use the selection tool to
select painting areas. Since we're using
a pretty big canvas, I'll use remove
background, set it to new layer with
changes, and hit generate. There we have
a pretty nice waterfall. I just have to
remove this white background. And there
we have it. And yeah, that's all for
today. Let me know down in the comments
if you end up with any other questions
and what I should show next. Make sure
to like and subscribe. See you in the
next one.